[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think that we
have, as a society,
given up our idea that
we can heal ourself.
We go to the doctor
for the answer.
And in doing that,
we give up that idea
that the healing
lives within our body.
And as soon as we
give up that image,
the healing doesn't
live in our body.
And we might go to the doctor.
And we might get better
for two weeks, four weeks.
But as soon as the doctor
isn't managing our illness,
we get sick again because
we're depending on the doctor's
consciousness to heal us.
>> You know, the empowered
part, I'm not sure we ever start
there.
I know from that
first phone call
into the doctor's office
saying, I think I'm pregnant,
there is doubt in hesitation
in you calling and saying that.
It's a very curious thing.
And so you're asked to
come in and confirm it.
And of course, it's confirmed
with the exact same test
that you do at home.
But it's a process of no
longer you being a part of it.
You're only a part of it
when you're in their space,
in that clinic space,
then you're pregnant.
But there's no way you're
pregnant outside of this space.
So I think it kind
of starts there.
And you have to kind
of take it back.
And finding the right providers
that actually support this.
And I think there are
plenty of providers.
We have been
fortunate enough here
to find a couple of them
that are really amazing
and use verbiage like,
well, what do you see,
rather than us being kind
of at their mercy for what
they think.
So it's been a long process,
but I have found it.
And I think the biggest
thing that I've come to
is that these little
babies, I'm their healer.
I'm their mom.
And I'm getting teary
eyed thinking about it,
but it's my job
and no one else's.
Just mine.
>> And your love for your boys
qualifies you to be able to do
that?
>> Especially when
patients have a diagnosis,
they tend to go into a
fearful, PTSD type of state.
It's much harder to
use your intuition
when you're in a state of fear.
We give up our power to the
person in the white coat,
forgetting that we're really
the only ones who have
all the answers for ourselves.
Looking outside of
ourselves for healing
is misguided because
when we depend
on the consciousness
of another, it detracts
from our own inner wisdom.
But the diagnosis is
completely an illusion.
It's not accurate.
Doctors say this word and then
the word has incredible power
to control you.
In fact, most doctors
are trained to identify
and eliminate symptoms,
rather than the underlying
cause of an illness.
Our symptoms are the
expression of the physical body
that provide clues
about the nature
and origin of the disease.
Acute symptoms then serve as
event for the deeper pathology.
When they're suppressed,
they're driven
deeper and much more
serious illness can occur.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We see this all the time.
People are generally
afraid of their symptoms.
We rush to take a pill, calm
a fever, suppress a cough.
When in reality, those
symptoms are the body's way
of combating an illness
and speaking to us.
>> What are your resources,
Andrea, that you use?
>> Well, we use
quite a few of them.
One, you, as a homeopath.
And you've guided me as well
in that journey and learning
for myself, which has been
great and it's been amazing.
But chiropractic care.
We use essential oils.
We use solid nutrition
supplementation.
And being a licensed
acupuncturist,
I will use some of those
modalities as well, if need be.
But it's seeing all your tools.
You need to find a little
bit of objectivity mixed
with a little bit of intuition.
>> So this is a representation
of our health in a health
helix.
And coming in here at
birth, we naturally
experience ear infections,
colds, flu, minor infections,
fevers, rashes.
And when you support the
system with natural modalities
like chiropractic,
homeopathy, Chinese medicine,
then the vitality increases as
you move upward in this spiral.
If you suppress symptoms
with over the counter meds,
or psychotropic medications,
antibiotics, vaccinations,
it suppresses the symptoms and
they go deeper into the body.
So you might start
with simply eczema
and as you suppress that,
it will go towards the lungs
and we see asthma.
The vitality is
decreased at that point
because you're suppressing
the system trying to express
all of these symptoms.
And you see deeper and deeper
chronic illness result.
So we might start with
eczema, but then you
see asthma, acid reflux, then
behavioral issues, maybe ADHD
or other spectrum disorders,
into autoimmune disorders.
And the deepest would be
neurological or mental
illnesses.
This helix is a
great representation
of either support to the
system expressing itself
or expressions from the
system, causing vitality
to be pressed down
and diminished.
>> So what happens with fear
is people are afraid of, oh
my god, something horrible
will happen if I have a cell
mediated response.
They don't know that
this is almost always
a controlled
response of the body.
And so they make a horrible
mistake, which is to thwart it.
It doesn't matter the
technique that you thwarted.
You could give Tylenol,
or Motrin, or aspirin,
or stick somebody
in a cold bath.
I mean, that's probably better.
But any way you thwart it is
almost always because of fear,
usually an irrational fear.
It's not founded
in any information
that you're about to
have a bad outcome.
And not only that, we know
that the outcomes are worse
if you get rid of the symptoms.
That has been shown in study
after study for decades.
So this fear leads you to
make really horrible decisions
about you or your
child that actually
make your possibility of getting
over this acute situation less
likely and pushes you
towards chronic disease.
And that's a bad mistake.
>> Why do they worry
about diseases too much?
When you got croup, this
is cleaning up your body.
Once a year, why
not to have a fever?
Why not to have a cold?
Croup?
It's a good thing,
cleansing up your body.
Thank you for fever.
Thank you for rash.
Thank you for leukorrhea.
This is the elimination,
not symptom.
Elimination.
Don't worry about it all.
Let body to do it.
Body is so clever.
Our mind is not so
clever enough than body.
Body will know how to
expel dirty things.
So let them to do it naturally.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of the simplest examples
I often give patients is,
in my view, doctors
and medicine,
the medicine I was
taught in school,
is confused between
cause and effect.
Or I sometimes like to
say therapy and disease.
So if you get a
splinter in your finger
and you don't take
it out, you get pus.
It's clear in that
example the pus is
the therapy for this splinter.
And even most doctors
would probably
appreciate that and not
give you an antibiotic
because you have an
infection in your finger.
But it's also clear that
the only therapy for that
is to either let the pus
get rid of the splinter
or take the splinter out.
But then it gets more
complicated if somebody smokes.
Essentially they're putting
splinters in their lungs.
And then they get pus, which
means cough, wheeze, mucus,
fever, which is there
to flush out the debris
that you put in your lungs.
Unfortunately, that seems
to be beyond the doctors
to understand that.
So they think that the coughing,
and the fever, and the mucus
is a disease called bronchitis
and they give you an antibiotic
to stop it.
Now that the repercussions
of that erroneous thinking,
in my opinion, is that
you do that twice a year
for 20 years, which is
about average for smokers,
and then they end
up with lung cancer.
And I appreciate it's
a little simplistic
what I'm about to say.
But there's basically two
causes of lung cancer.
One is you put
debris in your lungs.
And two, which is in some
ways even more important,
if somebody stopped you from
getting it out of your lungs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When you believe, if it's
become dogma, dizziness.
OK, he could die.
Such kind of dogma or
beliefs we have to change.
So therefore, I said them
a symptom is thank you God.
A symptom is happiness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If they're feeling--
knowledge is power and
what we equip people with.
To equip people with knowledge
and to say, out of love,
here's both sides
of the information.
You have one side
and this is what
you're getting predominantly.
Here's another side to consider.
Here's other information,
studies, and also
resources that you can entertain
and look into for your children
before you make an
educated decision.
I mean, I don't believe that
we can make educated decisions
without both sides.
So that I can decide, well,
I'm going to think about that.
Or I'm going to decide based
on my children and their health
situations what's best for them.
Well, how can I
do that if I only
have one side
that's predominantly
trying to force
me to do something
I may necessarily not
feel comfortable doing?
>> You need information and
you need objective information.
Meaning you need
information in which
there is no invested interest.
And luckily these days
with the internet,
a lot of that kind of
information is there.
And as soon as you
feel like you're
being pushed into a
certain direction,
I think you need
to abort from that.
Look at that kind
of information where
you can feel like this
is just information.
It's not something
that is trying to push
you one way or the other.
And you can see
that on all sides.
In that sense, homeopathy
is no different from what
we call the allopathic world.
We're all believers and
we think we are right.
So look for that kind of
information, which has
that kind of objectivity to it.
Which rings true to you.
The main thing is to keep quiet.
I mean, any thought
that comes up
in me which causes
anger, or fear,
or whatever kind of emotion
which is not pleasant,
I know the thought isn't true.
So I need to inquire that
thought and look what is true.
And our systems
for that, as Byron
Katie, for instance, with the
work that many people probably
know--
it's a beautiful way of looking
into those kind of things.
Like OK, you have this fear.
Make an inquiry into it and
see what is true for you.
>> You know, we see a lot of
polarization and we see a lot
of fear happening.
We see a lot of defensiveness.
And to the question, how
do you fight the fear,
I don't know if that's the
correct question because you
don't want to fight it.
Resist not evil is a
very wise statement.
As soon as you resist it,
you're in the same energy of it.
And so then you didn't
do anything, but just
join the energy.
You can't get out
of that energy.
Einstein says you
can't solve a problem
at the same level of thinking
that you're stuck in.
We've got to find times
and places to be still.
We have to learn to
respect each other.
One of my favorite
sayings is from Einstein.
And he says, "The
greatest decision
we will ever make
in our lives is
whether we perceive we
live in a hostile world,
or a happy world, or
a friendly universe."
And you know what?
That decision is
moment to moment.
Every second of our lives
we make that decision.
Is it hostile or are
they out to get me?
Or no, what's the gift in this?
What's going to happen?
What's the new adventure?
What's the fun?
We make that choice to perceive
outside of ourselves what's
happening.
And we can flip, you
know, like a dime.
But if we're
conscious that we are
the ones who make that
choice of perception,
the whole world opens.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You have to really heal
from within you based on what
resonates with you the best,
instead of being distracted
by the periphery.
But I really, truly believe
that there's a better way.
And I believe that, as humans,
we are absolutely designed
to work in synergy with nature.
And that It's a perfect balance
and perfect relationship.
I truly believe
that the human body
is designed to work in
nature with perfect harmony.
>> As a human, we are
given the ability to heal.
It's within us when there's
things out of balance.
And so in my practice I
call that the whisper.
If you listen to those whispers
and you balance the body
from those places,
then you never
have to hear the body scream.
And so we look at the scream
in naturopathic medicine
as disease.
The most gratifying
thing about my practice
is being able to help
families listen to the whisper
so that it doesn't
get to a point
where their body is screaming
with disease or imbalance.
>> That's that little voice.
That little voice that says,
this baby's going to be OK.
This voice it says, this baby
needs to go to the doctor.
The same voice also
says, this baby
should see the chiropractor.
>> How do you distinguish
that from fear?
How do you determine
whether it's
fear telling you
to do something,
or your intuition telling
you to do something?
This is what I say to my
patients all the time.
They're depending on me
to give them answers,
but answers lie within them.
I can be a support system.
I can be a cheerleader.
I can be a guide along the way.
But my goal is to get them
listening to their inner voice.
>> Yeah, that's that
gut, that gut feeling.
What I've learned, I think,
experience fuels intuition.
But being able to
remove the hysteria,
and hone in on your experience,
and then come from that space
is really about
finding that intuition.
But what I've learned
is the paranoid thought
that gets stuck on a
reel is not intuition.
That's the fear-based.
>> What I tell my kids or what
I told them when they were
little.
I said, right here
you have some fur.
It's fur, OK?
Just like a cat has fur.
And you know when you rub a
cat in the direction of the fur
it's smooth.
But if you rub a cat
in the other direction,
oh, it kind of bristles.
I said right in here
you have that fir.
And so go to it all the time.
So I invite you, as
parents, go to the fir.
For all the decisions that
you have, feel the fur.
It's deeper than the
outside contrived fear.
It's inherent within you.
Is the fur rubbing in
the right direction?
Go for it.
Is it bristling?
Stop, look, listen,
find out more.
And if you can apply
that with your children,
with all your choices, with
your decisions, things go well.
Things go well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I was 16, my mother
was diagnosed with cancer.
And she proceeded to embark
on chemotherapy, radiation,
the conventional treatment.
At the same time,
my sister started
exploring natural medicine.
Vitamins, supplements, and it
wasn't very popular back then.
This is in the 1970s.
So she would drive
my mother everyday
to her chemo or
radiation treatments
and wait for her in the car
and my mother would come out.
And my sister started
giving my mother
vitamins and supplements.
And she was rallying.
She was doing great.
And her doctors were saying,
you're doing fabulous.
This is amazing.
You're doing very well.
And my mother, in her
innocence, said, yeah,
my daughter's giving
me supplements.
And her doctor said
to her, you have
to stop that right away
because that's interfering
with your treatment.
My mother came out of that
treatment crying and explaining
to my sister what had happened.
And of course, she stopped
all her supplements.
And about three weeks
later, she was dead.
So her death was the
beginning of my awareness
that there is another way.
There isn't only one way.
>> I just think it's really
important for people to know
that the other way to conquer
fear is love and love is
the only thing more
powerful than fear.
And I think that if people are
loved when they are cared for
or loved when they're
treated, that they will
see a much more healing
response and environment
internally and externally and
make it a lot easier for them
to go into a healing state.
So real immunity
is something that I
am very passionate
about for all people.
And I'm so grateful
that you were
able to do this documentary.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What's the best
practitioner for you?
Well, one of them is sitting
right next to me right now.
But honestly, I have found a
lot of wisdom in your advice.
And like you said, you're right,
I do take everyone's advice.
But the biggest piece is that
finding the right practitioner
has to do where you
are as a parent.
And I believe that we had
spoken one time, remember,
and I had said that I
realize I'm their healer.
My boys, I am their healer.
I am the person to process
this information for them
and give them what they need.
And not to just hand
them over willingly
to someone who doesn't have an
invested interest in my child.
They may.
It may be of different interest.
But ultimately, they're
not the one holding them
in the middle of the
night for two nights,
working through the croup.
Very scary.
They're just not.
It's me.
So the best practitioner.
One who listens, of course.
One who is going
to be straight up
about what they have to offer.
One who talks openly
about the side effects
of what they're offering.
One who is open to modality.
And rather than giving
me the, well, I've
heard it works a little bit.
Instead of giving me that, they
gave me the, you know what?
You're his mother and
you know what's best.
And it sounds like you're
well-informed about this.
Go ahead.
That was a switch
where I thought,
this is a practitioner
who is listening,
who's paying attention.
And I guess honoring
the fact that I
am the kid's mom, and the
baby's mom, and trusting that.
You're the ideal client because
you take responsibility.
Because you listen
to your intuition.
And you make some
decisions on your own.
And you reach out
for the support
that you need without expecting
others to take responsibility
for your children.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You know, it's what I thought
being a doctor was going to be.
And it's not.
We're trained to do the
exact opposite of what
we're doing right now.
We have an agenda.
We have a bias.
Doesn't matter
what you say to me.
I'm going to tell you
what your condition is.
which medicine will relieve
your sym-- oh, we're
not going to heal you,
but we'll give you a medicine
to fix your symptoms so you'll
feel better.
And it'll cost
three times as much
as you think is fair because
we have a broken health care
system.
And then you move on.
So when I became
a doctor, at least
when I made the decision
to become a doctor,
I really thought it
was about healing.
I thought it was about
the relationship.
I thought it was,
you know, 1980s
"Little House on the
Prairie," Doc Baker medicine.
And I think a lot of doctors go
into their training believing
that.
And then we're pulled over into
the brokenness of the system
and the ego comes.
And then we realize that being a
doctor means you do what I say.
Right or wrong.
If it's wrong, well, then, you
know, it's still not my fault.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have patients come to
me all the time and tell me
stories about going through
pediatrician after pediatrician
and being bullied, or shamed,
and then they find you.
And they literally
sometimes burst
into tears knowing they
finally found somebody
who's respectful of them.
So what makes you
the guy that you are?
What is it?
Tell me more.
>> As a person and as a clinic,
we really focus on doing four
things differently.
We wanted to be a clinic
to provide health care that
was judgment-free.
And the slogan we use is
that you're safe here.
We don't want people
to be afraid to talk
about their needs, to
talk about their journey,
or to talk about their
goals for health.
And if their goals
or their needs
are different from
what I was expecting,
that needs to be OK, too.
And so we serve with a humble
heart, which is number two.
We're an ego-free clinic.
Everybody that works
here has enough training
and enough experience
to have the biggest
ego that you would ever meet.
But that's a requirement
to being here.
That you have to be humble.
You have to check
the ego at the door.
Had some brilliant practitioners
that interviewed with me,
but the ego was what kept
them from working here.
The fourth thing that
we do is that we're
a values-based clinic.
So we all align--
everyone who works here
are aligned to their values.
And the outcome of our
values is that we're
going to love our patients.
And we have great news.
It's unconditional love.
They don't have to love us back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So we do four things different.
We have patients that drive
quite a ways to come here.
And we've seen some
of those tears.
We have one mom that drove
nine hours to come here.
She had written off
Western medicine forever.
She was never going
to go back to an--
certainly not a pediatrician.
Her child was vaccine
injured and her doctor
didn't believe her.
They witnessed regression
into autism after vaccines.
A perfectly healthy
child, autism.
And she was done with doctors.
But she heard about our
clinic and made the drive.
And I still remember
walking into the room
and she just burst into tears.
I figured it's because I was
late or something was wrong.
Just a relief to
have a safe place.
So you said a couple of things
that really resonate with me
because as homeopaths
what we're trained to do
is be unbiased observers.
And with that
unbiased observation,
we don't make any judgments.
We don't have an agenda for
how a person is supposed
to heal because we don't
know at the front end what's
meant to be.
So when you can have that
unbiased observation,
you can be present with
that unconditional love.
So that's what attracts
people to your clinic.
And I know some of my patients
who do drive hours to see you.
So what do you
receive from that when
you give that kind of care?
What's it do for you?
>> Whether it's the right
place or time to say it.
Recognizing how important
it is that we all
work together and respect
each other as professionals,
I think, is my hope for
the future of health care.
Recognizing that it's OK
that things I don't know.
And maybe I know things
that you don't know.
I don't know or not.
Probably not with you
because of your experience,
but other providers
in the community.
If we can complement
each other, then we're
providing real health care.
Some of our mutual patients
that we have and we've both
seen that.
That they're better because
they're working with us
and we're working together.
I love seeing those outcomes.
>> Right, yeah, it's wonderful.
Really gratifying,
really gratifying.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You're looking at things
in the right capacity, right?
Rather than coming
from a place of fear,
you kind of look at it from
rather than a real focused
space, you kind of
move back up outwards
and you look at it
from a, I don't want
to say objective point of view.
But you kind of
remove the hysteria.
You remove any of self-doubt.
And you look at your tools.
So you've come up from here.
And you see your child.
And then you have your tools.
And you kind of look
at it from that space.
It's not always perfect.
Definitely not always perfect.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In primitive times, people
used to believe that making
sacrifices could control
their environment.
Maybe the crops, or the
weather, or the well-being
of the society.
It was erroneous thinking,
but it was very powerful.
Today in our misunderstanding
of the interconnectedness
of all life, including
viruses and bacteria,
we've assumed that
we are superior.
We've sought to eliminate
or control disease
and that's not the answer.
We're just beginning to
understand the vital role
that other organisms
play in our evolution.
We cannot sacrifice the next
generation by believing that
doing something in the same
way we've always done it is
the only answer.
It's time to get
beyond our fears.
To honor and respect our
biology and our own immunity.
And the power of
our own intuition
to make wise decisions.
We can listen to and trust
that still, small voice within.
It is the path to
personal empowerment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As Einstein says, "We
can view the world
as hostile or friendly.
We build our own reality
upon our perceptions.
Our lives then become
illustrations of that choice."
In order to survive,
humanity must
learn to take responsibility
for the health of ourselves,
each other, and of our planet.
Join us for the second film
in the Real Immunity series,
Passage to Real Immunity.
Experts will explore
practical choices,
like homeopathy, chiropractic,
Chinese medicine and beyond,
to help you build your toolkit
and find your own answers
on your path to real immunity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]